632
MRI

As of Wednesday, I can chalk up another life experience: my first
[MRI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MRI). One of my eyes had been a little
unhappy, so my ophthalmologist ordered the MRI to help her diagnose the
problem.

<p class="right"><a href="/mri_images_and_animations">
  <img class="shadow" src="/w/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/localizer_00.jpg" /></a></p>

(If you're just here for the
[pretty pictures and animations of my brain](/mri_images_and_animations),
go ahead. I won't be offended!)

I'd had X-rays before, so I naively thought an MRI would be similar. I even
tried to bring reading material in, on the off chance that it would take more
than 5 minutes or so. Boy, was I wrong. It took a full hour, and it was one of
the most unpleasant experiences I've ever had.

Even if you're not familiar with MRIs, you've probably seen one in a hospital
scene on TV or in a movie. They lay you down on a platform, immobilize your
head, and slide you into the bowels of a big machine. The machine passes a
series of RF waves through you, which it uses to produce detailed images of
the inside of your head or body.

<img class="left shadow" src="/mri_machine.jpg" />

That's all well and good, but it wasn't much comfort while I was actually in
it. First, I had to lie perfectly still for an hour. No coughing, scratching,
or twitching. They did pull me out halfway through, but just long enough to
inject me with a
[contrast agent](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MRI#Image_contrast_and_contrast_enhancement),
then put me right back in.

That wasn't too bad, but the sound and vibration of the RF waves definitely
were. It sounded like a piano tuner had gotten confused and tried to tune a
klaxon horn instead, with the business end pointed right at my ears. It was
loud, painful, and the vibrations were so strong, I felt like they were
melting my bones.

<a href="/mri_images_and_animations">
  <img class="right third shadow" src="/w/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/t2_axial_17.jpg" /></a>

All of that was a walk in the park, though, compared to to the claustrophobia.
I'm not a fan of cramped spaces, but I'd never actually gotten claustrophic
before. I'd also never been in anything quite like this. The tube was barely
large enough to fit me inside. I couldn't move my head - or anything else, for
that matter - so I couldn't see outside. All I could see was the tube's
ceiling, literally inches away from my eyes.

I was immediately antsy, but during the first couple scans, I clamped down on
the uneasiness and took in the experience. At the beginning each of scan, the
techician told me over the intercom how long it would be. They started short,
first 30 seconds, then a minute and a half, then ramped up to three to six
minutes.

<a href="/mri_images_and_animations">
  <img class="left third shadow" src="/w/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/post_t1_axial_00.jpg" /></a>

By the third scan, the enclosed space had me ready to panic. I managed to talk
myself out of it, just barely, by thinking of it as a mental exercise. I
challenged myself to keep control. I kept my eyes firmly closed and tried to
think about other things - friends, family, weekend plans,
[work](/2008-04-07_google_app_engine_launched). The
blaring of the RF waves was overwhelming, though, and I couldn't concentrate
for more than a few seconds at a time.

Still, I managed to keep control through the first series of scans. I counted
up each one, fiercely anticipating the 60 minute mark. When the technician
pulled me out at 28 minutes, I was ecstatic, and immediately asked for advice.
She looked vaguely surprised.

<a href="/mri_images_and_animations">
  <img class="right third shadow" src="/w/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/post_t1_sag_09.jpg" /></a>

"Hmm, close your eyes and try to think of something else, I guess?"

So much for bedside manner. The break didn't last long, anyway. She didn't
even take off the restraints. She just wiped my arm, injected me with the
contrast agent, taped me up, and pushed me back in. 32 more minutes of agony.

After a few more scans, I had a newfound appreciation for people who suffer
from depression, anxiety, and other psychological problems. I was in a lot of
physical discomfort, but that was nothing compared to the constant,
overwhelming fear and panic. The urge to tear off the restraints, claw apart
the walls of the tube, to just plain _get out_, was incredibly powerful.

<a href="/mri_images_and_animations">
  <img class="left third shadow" src="/w/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/t2_axial_07.jpg" /></a>

When they finally pulled me out, I was drained. I could barely sit up. The
effort it had taken to hold myself together and keep from panicking had
drained everything out of me. I didn't care, though. I was so relieved to be
out of that damn tube!

To make a long story short, my eye is fine. Plus, as a bonus, I got the raw
data from the MRI, which I converted into [images and
animations](/mri_images_and_animations). So cool!

By the way, I went to [El Camino Hospital](http://www.elcaminohospital.org/),
which was great. The administrative staff there was helpful, and the paperwork
and bureaucracy was minimal and painless.
