6973
New old wedding ring

<p class="right half">
 <a class="shutter" href="/w/wp-content/uploads/2012/12/02_flowers_rings_in_flowers.jpg">
  <img class="shadow" src="/original_wedding_rings.jpg" /></a></p>

I'd never worn a ring before I got married, so when I started wearing my wedding
ring, I wasn't used to it. It didn't feel right. I constantly spun it on my
finger, pulled it over my knuckle, and occasionally took it off altogether. Not
a good idea.

You can see where this is going. Less than half a year after I bought it, I lost
it. We know it's somewhere in the house, but we turned the place upside down,
combed through the trash and floorboards and vacuum bag, and still didn't find
it. Sad.

<!-- more -->
<span />

We planned to get a new one, but we weren't in a hurry. Neither of us worried
too much about the symbolism, and I'd proven I couldn't really be trusted with
one anyway, so we put it off.

A couple months down the road, we visited Gina's
[aunt Carole](https://www.facebook.com/carole.ambler.7) down in Southern
California, who's as close to her as her own mother. Carole laughed along with
us as we told the story, then immediately said hey, what about her late husband
Charlie's ring? We protested vigorously, but to no avail. She headed straight to
her bedroom, brought it back, and wouldn't take no for an answer. We looked at
each other, uncertain, but I liked it and it fit me, so we thanked her profusely
and I put it on.

<p class="left half">
 <a class="shutter" href="/new_wedding_ring.jpg">
  <img class="shadow" src="/new_wedding_ring_thumb.jpg" /></a></p>

It's amazing. Not just that it's my style, or that it fits, but the visible wear
and tear is astounding. It's traditional 14ct yellow gold, so Charlie's 40 years
of hard living have put dozens, maybe hundreds of scratches, dents, and holes in
it. Talk about character.

If you know me, you know I'm not a hipster. I care about aesthetics, including
what I wear, but I'm not exactly trendy, and I react to peer pressure by pushing
hard in the opposite direction. I've been called stubborn, and the shoe fits. I
don't go for counterculture fashion any more than "normal" fashion, and I'm
uncomfortable with blind fanaticism for artisan hand-made local organic
distressed vintage everything. I do love character and a good backstory, though,
and I care about treating people fairly,
[like Brett](http://www.onebigfluke.com/2013/01/buying-from-equals.html), so I'm
disappointed that hipster culture has soured me on all that a bit.

Happily, that kind of navel-gazing and hand-wringing just makes me love this
ring even more. It's old, classic, and wears its heart on its sleeve, sure, but
it's not a bump of hipster street cred to us. We've found tremendous meaning in
[revitalizing family heirlooms](/2011-04-10_cufflinks_into_jewelry) before, and
this feels the same way. We came by it honestly and we love it.

Thank you, Carole, for such a wonderful gift! We couldn't be happier with it.
I'll wear it in your and Charlie's honor, and it will keep you both in our
hearts.
