1472
Faisan Reunion 2004

<p class="right"><img class="shadow" src="/faisan_thumb.jpg" /></p>

Yesterday I took off from work a little
early, drove up to Palo Alto, and went to a class of 2000 reunion. This wasn't a
high school or college reunion, though. No, it was a _dorm_ reunion. We gathered
up everyone - well, ok, only a few people - who had lived in the fabulous
[Faisan](http://rescomp.stanford.edu/dorms/_archive/1998-99/flomo/eastflomo/faisan/)
dorm in 1999-2000, and we had a blast. We met at the [Dutch
Goose](http://www.10bestcityguides.com/details.process/OID_0D9A56E1/MID_328/CID_8/SID_22/BID_42068/),
a college pub famous for cheap food, pitchers of beer, and giant wooden tables
carved deep with Greek symbols and initials inscribed in hearts. We found a
table, ordered a pitcher and bag of peanuts, and got down to the business at
hand: gossip.

"So did you hear that Fred is _still_ at Stanford?" "No, really?" "Yeah, I don't
know what he's doing, but I think he and Jane are still dating." "Wow, they've
been together forever." "Oh my god, do you remember when we were hanging out
with him and Joe and Sally, and Fred got so drunk he peed in a dryer?" "Of
course! Wasn't that on our dorm t-shirt?" "Oh yeah...and Sam [the computer
tutor] helped with the Photoshop stuff for that." "Oh yeah, Sam...he was [in
unison] _SO WEIRD!_"

To be fair, most of it wouldn't qualify as gossip, but we did try to catch up on
everyone we could remember. There weren't many of us, but for almost everyone in
the dorm, at least one of us had seen them in a class recently, heard from them
on IM, or - no joke - bumped into them on the street in New York. By the time we
left, we were armed with messages and inside jokes to pass on to dormmates we
talked with regularly, and we resolved to try to get in touch with the rest. All
in all, a great way to spend a Wednesday night.

[gallery type="rectangular" ids="31942,31943,31944,31945,31946,31947,31948,31949,31950,31951,31952,31953"]

