1476
Family Reunion Cruise

For our family reunion this year, we took a
[cruise](http://carnival.com/Ship_Detail.aspx?shipCode=SE) around the Gulf of
Mexico to Mahahual and Cozumel. We played volleyball, went scuba diving and
snorkeling, got sunburns, ate ceviche, played cards, told stories, gambled, tore
up the club, and pretty much had a ball. Here are the pictures, and a great
[travelog-style writeup](#writeup) from
[Devon](http://www.smalltownusa.net/staboutus.html). There are also
[pictures from past reunions, back to 1991](/family_reunions_1991-1999).

[gallery type="rectangular" ids="32168,32169,32170,32171,32172,32173,32174,32175,32176,32177,32178,32179,32180,32181,32182,32183,32184,32185,32186,32187,32188,32189,32190,32191,32192,32193,32194,32195,32196,32197"]


<a name="writeup"></a>
### _Barrett Family Reunion 2005_

We decided to try a cruise for this, our 13th Barrett family reunion! Julia
Davis and Richard Barrett floated location ideas to the rest of the family, and
one thought was that a cruise would be especially appealing to our young-adult
group of cousins aged 18-26.

Richard flew to Houston several days prior to our reunion for business and to
drive with Frank (Houston) and Lola Barrett (Galveston) to New Orleans.

Vanessa and I flew into New Orleans a day early?.just because we could! Vanessa
finished finals for summer school early, and I had a wonderful break this summer
by not teaching summer school.

Ryan caught a Monday AM plan prior the afternoon sailing of the Carnival
Sensation, our cruise liner.

### New Orleans

Vanessa and I had a lazy and relaxing day eating and hanging out in the French
Quarter and adopting an attitude bolstered by hot and humid Southern weather.
The French Quarter (Vieux Carr??, which means old square), was established as a
French military outpost in 1718.

We indeed felt like we had hit The Big Easy, The City That Care Forgot, whose
motto is "Laissez Les Bon Temps Roulez" (Let the Good Times Roll).

We ate, of course:

  * shellfish at Brunings, a perennial favorite restaurant for the extended
Reidenauer family. Brunings is located on Lake Ponchatrain. It opened in 1859,
has been managed by the same family since before the Civil War, and is one of
the country's oldest restaurants.

  * mid-afternoon po boys and crab cakes beside the shoeshine man at Caf??
Pontalba (located in one of the Pontalba buildings, a 1850's-era red-brick
structure which is one of the oldest apartments in the US).

  * crab etouffe and jambalaya at the Gumbo House (some of the best regional
food we remember having)

  * traditional begniets and hot chocolate at Caf?? du Monde

  * huge complimentary buffet at the Marriott

We walked an empty Bourbon Street by day:

  * baskets of ferns and purple, green, and gold Mardi Gras beads hung from
second-story balconies (waiting to be thrown down to evening pedestrians)

  * jazz music floating out of open bar doors, some of which we discovered are
indeed open at 8:00 AM

We gawked at:

  * New Orleans' regional accents

  * street people dancing and drinking oh so early in the morning (it's just too
hot!)

  * the gold-gilt Maid of Orleans statue in front of the French Market (corner
of St. Philip and Decatur Streets). This statue, a replica of the original in
Place des Pyramids in Paris, was a 1958 gift from the people of France to New
Orleans. New Orleans stored the statue for eight years (lack of $35,000 to erect
it) until French President De Gaulle found French financing to erect the statue
at the foot of Canal Street. Wow, a nice gesture by the French?! The statue was
gilded in 1985, then relocated when the Casino was built.

We shopped a bit:

  * choosing pralines and checking out local liquor and seasonings

  * window-shopping the antiques stores on Royal Street

  * ducking in and out of art galleries

  * visiting a rare coins shop with Richard and Frank (he collects American
bills and bought a Confederate bill there).

  * choosing jewelry at the flea market (part of New Orleans' historic French
Market located downriver from Jackson Square on Decatur Street). This oldest
open-air market in the US began in 1791 and continues to house vendors selling
produce, fresh seafood, and assorted Louisiana delicacies 24 hours a day.

We sat-and New Orleans in summer is a great place to sit very still:

  * talking investment strategies and napping on benches in Jackson Square,
facing the dramatic statue of President Jackson on his rearing horse. This
square is a cast-iron-fenced oasis of grass and flowering trees located across
Decatur Street from the river. Originally called the Place d'Armes, the square
has served as both a military parade ground and the staging point for public
executions.

  * listening to a street jazz quartet on the steps of Jackson Square's St.
Louis Cathedral (the country's oldest cathedral), the 200-year-old Presbytere,
and Cabildo.

We met up with other cousins at the New Orleans home of Ruth, Hale, Kathryn, and
Grace Reidenauer (watch out for that telephone pole when you pull into the
driveway!). We ate Hale's seafood dip and pizza while we sorted through boxes of
old photos that Ruth brought out for identification. Devon observed with hands
off (almost), since she just spent two days helping her Arcadia friend Terra
Krulisky begin to organize 25 years of boxed family photos, yikes! Hale showed
Vanessa his equipment for brewing beer and root beer, which Vanessa has begun to
try.

The young cousins and Frank did walk Bourbon Street by night, and Vanessa
experienced drinking alcohol as they walked the street (which of course is
illegal in California).

### Cruise

We boarded our cruise liner, Carnival's MS Sensation, on Monday at noon. Danny
Davis' brother-in-law (a port officer) eased our boarding by processing our
passports separate from the general throng.

The Erwin Barrett family slid into our line just in time, after driving 2-3
hours from Alabama.

Joanne, Calin, Robbie Quirk and his girlfriend Nichole drove into town from the
Dallas area.

Lauren Quirk and her boyfriend flew into New Orleans last night from Chicago.

Ryan flew into New Orleans from San Francisco this morning and met us at the
dock.

Most of us met at the Davidsons' house to trek to the dock (along with our
luggage) in a chartered van.

Vanessa and I probably got ourselves on the local TV news during our walk from
the French Quarter to the dock to meet the family! We walked by news reporters,
news van, and a throng of onlookers checking out Decatur Street, four blocks of
which were closed due to a bomb threat. Apparently someone had left an
unattended suitcase on the sidewalk outside a major hotel. We rounded a major
corner and briefly hovered by the crowd to ask what was happening-which snagged
us an interview. Reporters asking bystanders who know nothing about anything to
comment? OK! Vanessa refused to give the most basic information about herself,
like her last name, or to comment on the situation. Devon made a joke with the
reporter.

The Barrett Family Reunion roster included:

  * Richard, Ryan, and Vanessa Barrett and Devon LaHar

  * Lola Barrett

  * Frank Barrett

  * Erwin and Evelyn Barrett; Rosalind, Mallory and Casey Barrett

  * Hale and Grace Davidson; Kathryn and Grace Davidson; family babysitter

  * Danny and Davis; Aimee, Danny Jr., and Justin Davis; Aimee's boyfriend Louis
and Danny Jr.'s girlfriend Crista

  * Joanne, Lauren, Rob, and Cailin Quirk; Lauren's boyfriend Aaron and Rob's
girlfriend Shannon

The boat had nice cabins, 3 dining rooms, two pools, and food available 24 hours
a day. Devon had what she needed, a soda card for unlimited diet Pepsi
throughout the cruise. Richard had what he needed, a captive family audience for
recording family members reading Walk Down Memory Lane stories and telling their
own family stories. Devon, Lola, and Joanne enjoyed the cruise's two art
auctions, and Devon and Joanne bid on and bought artwork. Others tried the
various cocktail lounges and shows at night. Cruise Ports Our boat stopped for
the day in each of two Mexican ports: Cozumel and Costa Maya. We narrowly
averted a hurricane which nipped one corner of the island of Cozumel, but cruise
lines are accustomed to rerouting to avoid storms during hurricane season.

Devon and Lola shopped and sat on the beach while Richard, Ryan, and Vanessa
scuba-dived.

Overall, we all enjoyed the cruise and thought it was a good experience to try
for a family reunion! The 18-26-year-old cousins decided that they liked our
typical family reunions better, because we see each other and talk with each
other more often and more easily. We usually rent 2-3 large houses by the ocean
or a lake, eat some communal meals, do some water sports, and hang out together.
